HubSpot Account Types | HubSpot
×
close
We use cookies to improve HubSpot’s site. Some cookies are necessary for our website and services to function properly. Other cookies are optional and help personalize your experience, including advertising and analytics. You can consent to all cookies, decline all optional cookies, or manage optional cookies. Without a selection, our default cookie settings will apply. You can change your preferences at any time. To learn more, check out our
Cookie Policy
.
Accept all
Decline all
Manage cookies
Skip to main content
HubSpot logo
Open site navigation
Getting Started
Guides
API Guides
Apps
CMS Development
UI Customization
(Beta)
API & Reference
API Endpoints
CMS Reference
UI Components
(Beta)
Search
Select a language
English
My account
On this page
Standard HubSpot accounts
App developer accounts
Developer test accounts
Create a developer test account
Renew a developer test account
Sandbox accounts
Standard sandbox accounts
CMS sandbox accounts
Development sandbox accounts (BETA)
Marketplace provider accounts
Getting Started
HubSpot Account Types
HubSpot Account Types
There are several types of HubSpot accounts, each with a distinct purpose. Below, learn about each account type and what they're intended for.
Standard HubSpot accounts
A standard HubSpot account is the most common type of account. It’s where you’ll find all the tools, features, and settings included with your HubSpot plan. It can be free or paid, and is used as your production environment.
A standard HubSpot account will have access to all the tools and features included with your plan.
App developer accounts
App developer accounts are free accounts intended for creating and managing apps, integrations, and developer test accounts. They're also where you can create and manage App Marketplace listings. However, app developer accounts and their associated test accounts aren’t connected to a standard HubSpot account. They can’t sync data or assets to or from another HubSpot account.
App developer accounts can be identified by a banner at the top of any page that says
This
is an app
developer account
.
Get started by creating an
app developer account
.
Developer test accounts
Within
app developer accounts
, you can create developer test accounts to test apps and integrations without affecting any real HubSpot data. Developer test accounts do not mirror production accounts, but are instead free HubSpot accounts with access to a 90-day trial of many enterprise features, with the following limitations:
Marketing
Hub:
you can only send marketing emails to addresses of users who you've added to your developer test account.
CMS Hub:
the number of pages you can create are subject to the following limits:
Website pages:
25
Blogging tools:
1 blog with up to 100 posts
Landing pages:
25
Workflows:
a maximum of 100,000 records can be enrolled per day in workflows created in a developer test account. If this daily limit is reached:
Any additional attempted enrollment beyond this limit will be dropped.
Users will be informed in app that they reached the daily record enrollment limit, as well as what time the limit will be refreshed.
You can create up to 10 test accounts per developer account. This type of account cannot sync data with other accounts, and they can't be connected to a standard HubSpot account. Test accounts can be identified by a banner at the top of the page, which includes how many days are left before it expires.
Below, learn more about creating and managing test accounts.
Create a developer test account
To create a developer test account:
In the left navigation sidebar of your app developer account, click
Test accounts
.
In the upper right, click
Create an app test account
.
Enter an
account name
, then click
Create
.
To access and manage your developer test accounts:
In the top navigation bar of your app developer account, click
Testing
.
Hover over the
account
you want to manage, then select an action:
To delete the account, click
Delete
.
To copy the account ID, renew the account, or rename it, click the
More
dropdown menu.
Renew a developer test account
Developer test accounts will expire after 90 days if no API calls are made to the account. You can either manually renew the account from the
Testing
page in HubSpot, or by making an API call to the account. Keep the following in mind when attempting to renew the account via API call:
This only applies to API requests made using
OAuth tokens
generated from an application in the same developer account as the test account you want to renew.
Renewals must be made no more than 30 days before the test account’s expiration date.
Sandbox accounts
Sandbox accounts allow you to test out changes without impacting your standard account. Learn more about the different types of sandbox accounts in the sections below.
Standard sandbox accounts
If you have an
Enterprise
subscription, you can create a standard sandbox account that provides a safe and secure environment where you can test new workflows, integrations, website pages, and other important changes without impacting anything in your standard account. These sandboxes copy the structure of your standard account.
These accounts can be identified by a yellow banner at the top of the page that includes the label:
You're in [name of sandbox], which is a standard sandbox account
. The banner will also include a link back to your production account for easy switching.
Learn more about standard sandbox accounts on
HubSpot's Knowledge Base
.
CMS sandbox accounts
CMS sandboxes are free accounts intended for building and testing website changes without impacting your standard account or live website. Similar to app developer accounts, CMS sandbox accounts are
not
connected to your standard HubSpot account.
You can
create a CMS sandbox account for free
.
CMS sandboxes don’t have a banner, but they only have access to HubSpot’s free tools and
CMS Hub
Enterprise
, minus the ability to connect a domain.
Development sandbox accounts (BETA)
If you have a
Sales Hub
or
Service Hub
Enterprise
subscription, you can create a development sandbox account through the CLI for local development. You can gain access to development sandbox accounts by
opting into the CRM developer tools beta
in your standard HubSpot account.
Development sandboxes can be identified by a yellow banner at the top of the page that reads:
You're in [name of sandbox], which is a development sandbox account
. Learn more about creating and using
development sandbox accounts
.
Marketplace provider accounts
Marketplace Provider accounts are intended for creating and managing
Template Marketplace listings
and transactions. To get started selling on the Template Marketplace,
create a Template Marketplace provider account
. If you're a
HubSpot Partner
, you already have Marketplace Provider functionality in your Partner account.
A Marketplace Provider account can be identified by a
Template
Marketplace
item in the top navigation menu.
Share your feedback
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
This form is used for documentation feedback only. Learn how to
get help with HubSpot
Developer Home
HubSpot Developer Documentation home
Copyright © 2024 HubSpot, Inc.
Legal Stuff
Privacy Policy
Manage Cookies
Toggle menu
Getting Started
Overview
What to build
Tools to help you build
Account types
Slack