HubSpot Template Marketplace Guidelines | HubSpot
×
close
We use cookies to improve HubSpot’s site. Some cookies are necessary for our website and services to function properly. Other cookies are optional and help personalize your experience, including advertising and analytics. You can consent to all cookies, decline all optional cookies, or manage optional cookies. Without a selection, our default cookie settings will apply. You can change your preferences at any time. To learn more, check out our
Cookie Policy
.
Accept all
Decline all
Manage cookies
Skip to main content
HubSpot logo
Open site navigation
Getting Started
Overview
What to build
Tools to help you build
Account types
Guides
API & Reference
API Endpoints
CMS Reference
UI Components
(Beta)
Search
Select a language
English
My account
API Guides
Apps
CMS Development
UI Customization
(Beta)
On this page
Why should I sell templates on the marketplace?
Overview and requirements
List and update themes on the Template Marketplace
Supported payment gateways
Refund requests
Manage your transactions
Removal of template listings
Frequently Asked Questions
CMS Development
Marketplace
HubSpot Template Marketplace Guidelines
HubSpot Template Marketplace Guidelines
The
HubSpot Template Marketplace
helps thousands of customers without direct access to a developer grow their online presence. It is powered by developers who create easy to use templates for customers.
You can sell two types of templates on the HubSpot Template Marketplace:
themes
and
modules
.
Why should I sell templates on the marketplace?
The HubSpot Marketplace has a lot to offer developers or agencies who are looking to create a new revenue stream.
Non-exclusive:
You’ve worked hard at creating your templates. You shouldn’t be tied down to only having your template on our marketplace and nowhere else. You’re free to use your templates outside of the marketplace for your own projects as well.
Build once, sell multiple times:
Once your template is listed on the marketplace, it becomes a 1:many opportunity. You simply build your template once and it can be resold to multiple customers.
Grow your business:
Many of the developers who sell their templates (both free and paid) on our marketplace have seen their businesses grow both from marketplace revenue and from additional services requested by buyers.
Join a community of creators and showcase your skills:
Connect with a growing and supportive ecosystem to help shape the future of the HubSpot Template Marketplace while bringing more visibility to your offerings and services.
Overview and requirements
To get started selling on the Template Marketplace,
create a Template Marketplace provider account
.
Any template submission must adhere to the compliance, design, and code quality requirements. Each template type also has its own requirements that must be met in order to be listed in the marketplace. You can view these requirements below:
Please note:
before you begin creating templates for the marketplace, HubSpot strongly recommends reviewing the
Building for the HubSpot Template Marketplace
,
Branding
,
Trademark Usage
, and
Content Usage
guidelines. Templates that violate these guidelines will immediately be removed from the marketplace as described in HubSpot’s additional terms.
Theme Requirements
A portable and contained set of templates, modules, global content, and style settings designed to work together to enable a marketer-friendly content editing experience.
View theme requirements
Module requirements
Submitted themes will contain modules, which are reusable components that can be used in templates or added to pages through drag and drop areas and flexible columns. You can also submit standalone modules. These are modules that can be added to any theme in HubSpot's content editor.
View module requirements
Listing Page Requirements
Requirements one must adhere to when submitting templates and their listing pages to the HubSpot Template Marketplace. These standards apply to all templates on the Marketplace.
View listing page requirements
Template Marketplace Policies
Requirements and compliance details for listing templates in the Template Marketplace.
View Template Marketplace policies
List and update themes on the Template Marketplace
Once you've created your template, submit it for approval to be listed on the HubSpot Template Marketplace. Once submitted, templates will undergo a review and approval process by the HubSpot Template Marketplace team.
Learn how to list and update your templates in the Template Marketplace
.
Supported payment gateways
HubSpot currently offers the ability for marketplace providers to connect the following payment gateways to receive payments:
PayPal (
supported countries
|
cross border payments
)
Stripe (
supported countries
|
cross border payments
)
Payments from customers are received through the payment connected in your Marketplace Provider account:
In your HubSpot account, navigate to
Marketplace
>
Provider Info
.
In the
Payment Method
section, view or update your payment information.
HubSpot is not responsible for any payment gateway issues that may occur during the purchase process. HubSpot does not take a cut of any transactions, and all transactions are handled independently of the HubSpot platform. If your payment method stops working for any reason, your assets may be delisted temporarily to avoid a negative customer experience.
Please note:
HubSpot has customers worldwide. When setting up your payment gateways, we strongly recommend accepting payments from international currencies (cross border payments).
HubSpot strongly encourages Template Marketplace Providers to use the Stripe payment gateway if it is available in their country. If Stripe is not
available in your country
, then we recommend using the PayPal payment gateway.
Refund requests
You may run into the occasional request from a purchaser for a refund. HubSpot recommends clearly stating your refund policy in a listing's description and providing a link to documentation about your refund policy. HubSpot encourages providers to honor valid refund requests. Learn more about general
guidelines for refund requests
.
Manage your transactions
A deal record is created in your Template Marketplace provider account for every template that a customer downloads. All deals will populate in a deal pipeline called
Marketplace Transactions
with the
Transactions
deal stage. When a refund is issued for a transaction, the
Refunded at
property will be set on the deal record.
Providers are able to
customize the deal pipeline and deal stages,
and
use the deal properties in workflows
.
Removal of template listings
HubSpot reserves the right to remove Marketplace listings for reasons including, but not limited to:
Bugs present in the template.
Third-party templates in the submission break.
The template is incompatible with
HubSpot-supported browsers.
Use of copyrighted material such as images, icons, fonts, audio, and video that are not licensed for distribution.
Templates that track users without their informed, explicit opt-in consent.
Templates (including linking to content from the Template Marketplace or from your template demo) that include:
Promoting or engaging in illegal activities.
Derogatory, disparaging, and/or malicious content.
Dishonest or false claims.
Offensive content about race, religion, age, gender, or sexual orientation.
Modules will be removed if the module affects other elements on the page/email that it is added to.
Frequently Asked Questions
Does the European Union P2B regulation (July 12,2020) apply to the App and Template Marketplaces?
Is there a specific HubSpot account type I need to submit to the Marketplace?
Do products published in the Marketplace live in my account or in the HubSpot Marketplace system?
How do I update my company name?
Why don't I see all of my products when trying to create a listing?
What should I use as a preview link?
Can a single template be used in multiple themes?
Do I have to resubmit a theme or module if I make changes to it?
How do I adjust the price of a theme or module?
How do I receive Marketplace payments?
Where do I go to get peer-to-peer feedback or connect with other Marketplace providers?
When a customer requests a refund, do their downloaded files remain in their HubSpot account?
How can I stay informed on the latest developer requirements and changes?
Share your feedback
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
This form is used for documentation feedback only. Learn how to
get help with HubSpot
Developer Home
HubSpot Developer Documentation home
Copyright © 2024 HubSpot, Inc.
Legal Stuff
Privacy Policy
Manage Cookies
Toggle menu
CMS Development
Overview
Tools
Quickstart
Setup
Storage
Content and structure
Debugging
Improve older sites
Marketplace
Template marketplace guidelines
General listing requirements
Template marketplace policies
Theme requirements
List and update templates in the HubSpot Template Marketplace
Module requirements